# Searcher

A multipurporse jQuery tagging and autocomplete text entry menu.

## Overview

Searcher is a jQuery plugin which allows users to create a list of tags from three different methods:

1. Text entry,
2. Local search results, or
3. Search results generated by a server side sript.

The second and third options require data in the form of jSon.

## Features

## Screenshots

## Installation

### Initialise the plugin

````
<script type="text/javascript" src="https://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.5.1/jquery.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript" src="jquery.searcher.js"></script>
<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="jquery.searcher.css" />

<script type="text/javascript">
$(document).ready(function () {
    $("#searcher").searcher( options go here );
});
</script>
````

## Data Options

When passing data for selected iems or search results into Searcher, the following format is used:

```
[
    {
        "id": val
        , "name": val
    }
]
```

In addition, there are optional fields for Search Results and Selected Items.

### Selected items

```
"delete": true | false
```

### Search Results

```
"groupname": true | false
```

## Configuation Options

Searcher allows configuration when the plugin is initialised and  through the method *settings*. Options are passed in the form of a jSon array.

option | description | Example
:-- | :--- | :---
*minchars* | The number of characters that must be entered before a search will be performed. *Default: 2*. | ```$("searcher").searcher({michars:5});```
*searchDelay* | The delay in milliseconds before a search is carried out after typing finishes. *Default: 500*. | ```$("searcher").searcher({searchDelay:250});```
*prePopulate* | jSON array of items to prepopulate searcher with with data, e.g.  *Default:null*. | ```$("searcher").searcher({prePopulate:[{id:1, name:'Hartnell'}, {id:2, name:'Troughton'}, {id:3, name:'Pertwee'}]});```
*searchURL* | URL of a a server side script capable of generating jSON. *Default: null*.  | ```$("searcher").searcher({searchURL:'../WebServices/wsSearch.asmx/Drugs'});```
*searchLocalData* | jSON array of items to to use for search data , e.g. . *Default:null*. | ```$("searcher").searcher({prePopulate:[{id:4, name:'Baker', group:'Doctor Who'}, {id:5, name:'Davison', group:'Doctor Who'}, {id:6, name:'Baker', group:'Doctor Who'}]});```
*searchGroupText* | If enabled, and it is present, any group name data associated with the search data will be searched. *Default: false*. |
*highlightMatches* | When enabled will hilight the parts of the search results which match the provided search terms. *Default: true*. |
*hintText* | Placeholder text displayed in the search input box. *Default: Type in a search term*. |
*noMatches* | Text displayed when no matches are found. *Default: *. |
*doingSearch* | Text displayed when search being carried out. *Default: *. |
*defaultGroupName* | When *resultsGrouping* is enabled, this value will be used for any search result that doesn't have a group specified. *Default: "No specified group"*. |
*resultsGrouping* | If set to true causes search results to be grouped by provided group, if a result has no groupname provided, the value specified in **defaultGroupName** will be used. *Default: true*. |
*excludeSelectedItems* | Exclude any selected items from search results. *Default: true*. |
*allowDuplicates* | Allow multiple items with the same id to be selected. *Default: false*. |
*maxResultsReturned* | Maximum number of search results returned. *Default: 100*. |
*maxSelectedItems* | Maximum number of items that can be selected. *Default: 100*. |
*deleteText* | The text displayed on the token delete button and clear selected items button. Specified as HTNL code. *Default: "&#10006" - displayed as ✖*. |
*enableClear* | Enables the clear tags button in the top left hand corner. Default, true. *Default: true*. |
*allowDelete* | Allows individual tags to be deleted. Default, true. *Default: true*. |

**Passing multiple options**

To pass multiple options, comma separate them, for example:

```
$(".example1").Searcher(										
							{			
								minchars: 1
								, excludeSelectedItems: false
								, searchGroupText: true
								, maxResultsReturned: 100
							    , allowDuplicates: false
						    }
						);
```

## Methods

Method | Description | Example
:-- | :--- | :---
*clear* | Remove all selected items | ```$("searcher").searcher("clear");```
*add* | Adds an item or items to the selected box, data is in the form of an array (specifed in **Data Options**,above) | ``` $(".example1").Searcher("add", [{"id":1, "name":"zygon"}, {"id":2, "name":"dalek"}]); ```
*get* | Returns an array of selected items (specifed in **Data Options**,above) | ```$("searcher").searcher("get");```
*remove* | Removes the sepecifed item or items from the selected box, data is in the form of an array of IDs | ``` $(".example1").Searcher("remove", [{"id":"Tennant"}, {"id":"McCoy"]); ```
*settinsg* | Configure the control using the options specified in the section **Configuration Options** |
